 Before the Migration of Men into the continent, Westeros was home to the Giant Race and Children of the Forest who worshipped the Old Gods and as part of their religion carved faces into Weirwood trees. In Essos, legends say the city of Asshai, and Empire of the Golden Dawn held existed in the far east, while the Fisher Queens ruled cities along the Silver Sea west of the bone mountains whose descendants became the Tall Men of the Kingdom of Sarnor. Also the Qaathi people reigned in these times founding various city states in what would later become the red waste. Of these cities only Qarth survived. The Summer Isles also have evidence of civilization at this time, with its inhabitants believing that the islands were alone in the world, surrounded by endless ocean. In 12000BC the First Men Migrated through the Arm of Dorne and went to war with the Children of the Forest. In a futile attempt to preserve their homeland, stories say the Children performed a magical ritual, possibly through a blood sacrifice, calling down the hammer of the waters to shatter the land bridge connecting Westeros to Essos. They later attempted the ritual again at the Neck of the continent, failing to completely to flood the area, and instead created marshlands. After 2000 years of war, peace was at last achieved though the Pact on the Isle of faces, which partitioned the land, with the Children taking the Deep Woods and Men taking coastlands, high plains, bright meadows, mountains and bogs. The First men also agreed to stop destroying the sacred wierwoods, and in the many years of friendship that followed, they even adopted the faith of the Children, coming to worship the Old Gods. Following the Pact, Westeros entered the Age of Heroes And for approximately 4000 years, the First Men flourished, founding many kingdoms and noble houses. During this time House Stark, Lannister, Gardiner, and Durrandon were founded. While on the Iron Islands, the legendary Grey king ruled following the faith of the Drowned God. And it was during this age that the Islands known as the three sisters worshiped the lord of the skies and lady of the waves. In 8000 BC The Long Night came, and for a generation Westeros suffered from a Harsh winter and Darkness. In the uttermost North a race of strange creatures known as the Others or White Walkers, marched south against the realms of Westeros. Stories describe them as tall and gaunt with skin as pale as milk and eyes that shine bright blue. They wore camouflage armor and wielded razor thin swords of ice imbued with magic allowing them to freeze and break enemy armaments. They were also able to summon ice spiders, and raise the dead, riding reanimated horses, bears and direwolves into battle and reviving fallen enemies to create an army of undead warriors known as Wights For years they wreaked havoc across the land until the legendary Last Hero journeyed deep into the North, possibly wielding dragonsteel, in search for the Children of the Forest, recruiting them to help humanity in their struggle. As the war continued on, an organization known as the Night’s Watch formed to fight against the invaders finally achieving victory at the Battle for the Dawn. The others were then pushed back to the lands of always winter, not seen again for over 8000 years. Although stories say the Children of the forest fought alongside humans during the long night, some have believe that it was in fact the Children who originally created the Others in a magical ritual years earlier, with the intent of raising a powerful army to fight on their behalf against the First Men, only to lose control of their creation. While Westeros suffered greatly during these years of war and darkness, the devastation of the Long Night was felt all across the Known world, seeing the lands of Essos endure their own hardships, establishing their own legends and mythos concerning the events of these years. In the lands of the Rhoynar, stories say a terrible night fell upon the world, causing the waters of the river Rhoyne to freeze, until a Hero emerged to unite the Children of the Goddess Mother Rhoyne, to sing a secret song which brought back the day. Beyond the Bone Mountains, in the Golden Empire of the Dawn, legends say it was under the reign of the Amethyst Empress that the troubles began. Believing she was betrayed by her brother who crowned himself the Bloodstone Emperor, his corruption led him to betray the gods of their people and worship a black stone fallen from the sky,* caused the Maiden Made of Light to turn her back on the world. This then led to the Long Night, when the Lion of Night came forth to punish the realms of men for their wickedness. The Demon armies of this vengeful god caused great devastation, until a hero emerged, wielding the sword Lightbringer, to drive the enemy back, restoring light to the world. The story of the hero who fought the armies of darkness with a flaming sword spread throughout eastern essos, with many cultures adopting their own version of the tale such as the Patrimony of Hyrkoon and its successor Realms who claim the man was known as Hyrkoon the Hero, while other lands give this figure names such as Eldric Shadow Chaser, Yin Tar and Neferion. The most well known story however would came out of the mysterious far eastern city of Asshai, where the followers of the Red God R’hllor, claim the hero was Azor Ahai, believing he forged his magical sword by driving it into his wife’s heart, imbuing it with her soul and naming it Lightbringer, the Red Sword of Heroes. With Lightbringer at his side he led humanity to victory against the demon armies of night restoring light to the world. The ancient prophecies of Asshai, then go on to claim that Azor Ahai would one day return, reborn to fight against a new darkness that threatens humanity. The chaos and years of war led to the collapse of the Great Empire of the Dawn, replaced by a successor state in the Golden Empire of Yi Ti. Back in Westeros, after the defeat of the Others, stories say Bran the Builder of House Stark led the effort to build up a great defensive wall with the Night’s Watch as it’s eternal guard. Years later, the 13th Lord Commander of the Night’s Watch, betrayed his oaths, seduced by a beautiful woman with skin was as white as the moon and eyes like blue stars. The woman was said to have skin as cold as ice, leading many to believe she was linked to the Others, possibly one of their kind herself, or else an undead servant. The Lord Commander then took his seat at the Nightfort and declared himself King and the woman he loved his Queen with the Night’s Watch as his personal army. The Night’s King as he became known ruled committed barbarous atrocities, until the King in the North entered into an uneasy alliance with Joramun, King beyond the wall attacking together and defeating The Night’s King, freeing the Watch from his brutal reign. King Joramun led an army of Free Folk, also known as Wildlings, who lived north of the wall when it was constructed and were cut off from the rest of the continent. Some legends say King Joramun would go on to find the Horn of Winter, blowing it to awaken the Giants. Although estimates vary as to when exactly the age of heroes ended, many date the start of the Andal invasion to 6000 years before Conquest. When Hugor of the Hill was crowned the first king of Andalos, uniting his people under the Faith of the Seven. Slowly the Andals migrated into Westeros, first sailing into the Fingers of the Vale, then expanding to conquer all of the continent up to the Neck, overthrowing various old and noble houses of the First Men. Only the Starks of the North fighting alongside the children of the forest, were able to resist them. And as a result First men blood remained strong in the north, while the south largely mixed with the Andals. The Children were nearly wiped out in the wars as the Andals slaughtered them wherever encountered, burning the sacred Weirwood Trees. The few of their kind that remained fled far to the North, going into hiding and as a result, most Westerosi came to believe they died off. For thousands of years the Andals ruled the south raising hundreds of petty Kingdoms that would eventually transform over time into larger regions known as the Vale, the Iron Islands, the Riverlands, the Westerlands, the Reach, the Stormlands and Dorne. Each ruled by various noble houses constantly fighting for power. Far to the East The Ghiscari Empire rose and conquered a large territory west of the Bone Mountains and for thousands of years they ruled, building great pyramids with slave labor, colonizing foreign lands in Sothoryos and discovering far off civilizations like the Summer Isles. Until the Rise of the Valyrian Freehold where Dragonriders and magic users led devastating armies out of the Valyrian Penninsula, waging a series of 5 wars against the Ghiscari, conquering nearly all their territories and burning the city of Ghis to the ground. Afterward they laid the ground with salt and sulphur to stop the survivors from ever reforming the city. The surviving Ghiscari fled to the cities of Yunkai, Astapor and Meereen along Slaver’s Bay, and formed New Ghis, on a nearby island. Further Westward, the City States of the Rhoynar Rose to power along the River Rhoyne. Though politically divided, they were united by their Faith in the Mother Rhoyne and a unique and progressive culture granting women equal inheritance rights, and tolerating homosexuality. In 3000 BC The Free Folk Beyond the Wall united under Gendel and Gorne, brother Kings who invaded Stark lands in great numbers, bypassing the Night’s Watch with tunnels dug beneath the wall. However they were ultimately defeated and pushed back by House Stark and the Northmen. Though the city had existed before under a people called the Mazemakers, the City of Lorath was colonized in 1424BC by Valyrian worshippers of the Blind God Boash Having defeated the Ghiscari, Valyria began expanding West establishing the city of Volantis and warring with the Rhoynar until 700BC when they completed their conquest, defeating Prince Garin the Great and his army of 250 000. In 700BC Princess Nymeria led the Survivors of the defeated Rhoynar on 10 000 Ships, sailing the Summer Sea in search of a new home. After years of struggle unable to successfully Martell, uniting together to conquer the territory. In the North, after many years of Conflict, House Stark defeated House Bolton, removing the Red Kings from Power and consolidating their power in the North After Defeating Sea Raiders from the East, Lord Karlon Stark was rewarded with lands and titles, allowing him to form House Karstark. In the South, the Ironborn raided the Western coast and at their height controlled lands from Old Town to Bear Island. After finishing with the Rhoynar the Valyrians conquered the western coast, defeating the remaining Andals to establish many of the settlements that came to be known as the Free Cities such as Pentos, Myr, Tyrosh, Lys, Qohor and Norvos. A notable exception was Braavos, founded in secret, by runaway slaves, fleeing their Valyrian masters. Over a hundred years later they revealed themselves to the world. In 326BC the Valyrians once again pushed West. This time with the annexation of a small island in the narrow sea they named Dragonstone, meant as the Westernmost Territory to provide a port for Trade with the Andals of Westeros. In the final centuries before Aegon’s Conquest of Westeros, the Storm Kings began an expansion of their holdings by invading the Riverlands, while the Ironborn slowly lost the Empire they had built Yet after years of decline, House Hoare of the Black Blooded Kings took power on the Islands, and sent their armies to the Riverlands, taking it from the Storm Kings, remaining in power until Aegon’s Conquest. The various territories of Westeros were now formed into Seven Kingdoms, with the Kingdom of the North, Kingdom of the Isles and Rives, Kingdom of the Mountain and Vale, Kingdom of the Rock, Kingdom of the Reach, Kingdom of the Storm and Dorne. In the Valyrian Freehold, Daenys the Dreamer, a Lady of House Targaryen saw a vision foreseeing the Destruction of Valyria in 126BC and convinced her family to leave the city. They made their home on Dragonstone, taking with them 5 living Dragons including Balerion the Black Dread. 12 years later in 114 BC the Doom of Valyria shattered the Valyrian peninsula with many believing the destruction was cause by the eruption of the 14 Fires, the chain of Volcanoes where the Valyrians first found dragons and bonded with them. After the loss of their homeland, Aurion, one of the few surviving Dragon Lords declared himself First Emperor of Valyria and raising an army of 30000 soldiers in Qohor, leading them south with the aim of retaking the penninsula. Yet neither he, his dragon or his army were ever heard from again. On Dragonstone, thanks to the vision of Daenys the Dreamer, House Targaryen avoided the fate of their people and were now some of the last people in all the known world in possession of living dragons. After the Fall of the Valyrian Freehold, Essos became embroiled in a 100 years of war between rival factions vying for power. This time became known as the Bleeding years or Century of Blood most associated with the rise of the nomadic Dothraki horse lords, who rampaged across the continent, burning cities and forming what would become the Dothraki sea by conquering the Kingdoms of Sarnor, the Ibbenese settlements in the Ifequevron, and many of the Qaathi city states of the red waste. Meanwhile the Free Cities fought amongst themselves for land and to control trade in the west. At the Battle of Qohor, also known as the Battle of the 3 thousand, the city state of Qohor defended against a Dothraki horde of 25000. And while their defeat seemed al lbut assured, the Qohori used an army of 3000 Unsullied warriors. Famed slave soldiers, castrated at a young age and trained their whole lives for battle. Although only 600 Unsullied survived the fighting, they killed over 12000 Dothraki, causing them to retreat and halting their western migration. After years of preparation, The Dragon Lord Aegon the Conquerer along with his sister wives Rhaenyra and Visenya, rode their Dragons West, and with an army of less than 1600 began their invasion of Westeros. One by one the Kingdoms that ruled the continent fell to the Targaryens. And while they often fought with a disadvantage in numbers, their Dragons rampaged across the land until the last remaining rulers either bent the knee or died resisting. Under the Targaryens, House Baratheon became Lords of the Stormlands, The Starks Lords of the North, The Tullys Lords of the Riverlands, The Greyjoys Lords of the Iron Islands, the Tyrells Lords of the Reach, the Lannisters Lords of the Westerlands, and the Arryns Lords of the vale. Only Dorne was able to avoid conquest, warning the Targaryens that they would never yield. With nearly all of the continent conquered, Aegon Targaryen was crowned King of Westeros and Protector of the Realm. Marking year 1 of Aegon’s Conquest. The new monarch then created the position Hand of the King appointing his closest friend and possible half brother Orys Baratheon* to the station. A few years later Aegon once again invaded Dorne in the First Dornish War, attempting to unite the continent under his rule. In 10AC Rhaenys, Queen of Westeros and wife of Aegon I, was believed to have died in battle. The war then continued on for 3 more years until King Aegon received a mysterious letter from Prince Nymor Martell, ruler of Dorne. And while the contents of the letter remain unknown, some have theorized that perhaps it stated Rhaenys was still alive, having been captured and kept as prisoner under torture. The letter may then have offered to end her suffering in exchange for a cessation of hostilities, and so Aegon immediately withdrew his troops from Dorne, ending the war. In 37AC Aegon the Conquerer, First King of Westeros died of natural causes. In his absence, his eldest son Aenys inherited the throne. During the reign of Aenys I, House Targaryen would continue the Valyrian tradition of Incest, marrying his eldest daughter Rhaena to his eldest son Aegon. However this came into conflict with the moral teaching of the Faith of the Seven. And so many rebelled against the Targaryens. For years the Faith Militants organized their forces and waged war against the crown. King Aenys in turn proved poorly suited to rule, incapable of stopping the bloodshed and dieing of illness on Dragonstone only a year after the conflict started. After the death of King Aenys, the elderly Queen Visenya, widow of Aegon the Conquerer, flew to Pentos and brought back her son and Aenys half brother, Maegor Targaryen. Queen Visenya then took Aenys’ children hostage, proclaiming Maegor King and issuing an open challenge to any who disputed the claim. This challenge was accepted by Ser Damon Morrigen called the Devout, and they fought each other in a Trial of Seven, with Maegor emerging victorious. King Maegor spent the years of his reign battling the Faith Militants and earning a reputation for cruelty. In 44AC Queen Visenya Targaryen, Mother of King Maegor, wife of Aegon I, died of natural causes. In 45AC THE KING completed construction of the Red Keep and Maegor’s Holdfast, creating a vast labyrinth of hidden passages and ensuring their secrecy by killing the many craftsmen and laborers who worked on the project. He also went to war with Prince Aegon and later Prince Jaeherys, the sons of Aenys, who continued to dispute his claim to the Throne. Maegor struggled without the guidance of his mother, and in 48AC was abandoned by his wife and several of his Kingsguard. King Maegor I died sitting on the Iron Throne, many believing he slit his wrists in the night. With Maegor dead, rule fell to his nephew Jaehaerys. King Jaeherys I went on to declare a truce, ending the war with the Faith Militants by granting their member’s amnesty in return for their submission to Targaryen rule. He became known as the Conciliator and had a long and prosperous reign, with many believing he was the greatest King Westeros ever knew. After the death of his son and heir, King Jaeherys called a great Council to decide on the issue of inheritance. The First Great Council of 101 AC Chose to honor a Male heir in Prince Viserys, son of the Kings thirdborn over Princess Rhaenys daughter of the kings Secondborn, leaving a precedent for future generations, that the Iron Throne could not pass to a woman, or to a male descendant of a woman if a male heir existed within the family. Two year later, King Jaeherys died of natural causes. King Viserys I then came to power and was considered a good ruler, keeping Westeros prosperous and peaceful. He had three children but his two sons died young, leaving only Princess Rhaenyra as a possible heir. Despite the precedent of the Great Council, Viserys embraced the idea of a female heir in order to avoid having his brother, “The Rogue Prince” Daemon Targaryen, take the Throne. The Kingdom united behind this arrangement and in 105AC, hundreds of Lords and Knights swore Oaths to defend Princess Rhaenyra’s right to the throne. After the death of his first wife, Viserys married Lady Alicent Hightower. The King and Queen produced many sons, but Viserys insisted on keeping his eldest daughter Rhaenyra as heir. Queen Alicent, determined to see her first born son Aegon crowned as king, then headed a faction that came to be known as the Greens, while Princess Rhaenyra led the Blacks. Viserys often attempted to bring peace between them but to no avail. In 129 AC King Viserys died of natural causes, and Queen Alicent along with her Kingsguard Ser Criston Cole immediately set to usurping the Throne. She proclaimed her eldest Son Aegon, King of Westeros, Second of his name and Legitamte heir to Viserys Targaryen. Legally she would cite the Great Council of 101AC where it was decided Females could not inherit the throne over men. Therefore the Crown must go to the eldest son by the king. On Dragonstone a pregnant Rhaenyra was enraged at the betrayal of the Queen and was so upset she went into early labor, losing the child. Once she recovered she raised her armies and waged war against the Queen and Aegon II. Known as the Dance of the Dragons, this was the first major civil of the Seven Kingdoms, and saw the continent split in support of the Blacks and Greens. While many kept the oaths taken in 105AC to Rhaenyra, others did not, and stayed neutral or supported Aegon. After years of fighting the war ended disastrously for House Targaryen, with both contenders for the throne dead. Along with a great majority of their Dragons and dragonriders. In 131AC Cregan Stark, Lord of Winterfell, came South with a mighty army in support of Rhaenyra Targaryen. Even after her death, they continued to King’s Landing, eager to take revenge. But before they arrived Aegon II was poisoned and with no more male heirs on his side of the family, Rhaenyra’s son Aegon III was crowned king. Lord Stark was enraged that the war ended before his army could crush the rebel forces. And so he had young Aegon name him Hand of the King, an office he held for a single day, in which he arrested all those suspected of poisoning the king and passed judgement on them, sending some to the wall and others to their graves. Afterwhich, he resigned his position and returned to the North. Although Queen Alicent survived the war, she was arrested shortly after and died in the prisons of King’s Landing in 133AC of Winter Fever Following the Dance of the Dragons, King Aegon III sat the iron throne and attempted to rebuild the kingdom. Though his reign was largely peaceful, he was unable to breed healthy dragons, and with so many lost in the war, the race went extinct under his rule, thus earning him the name Dragonbane. In 157 AC King Aegon III died of natural causes. After the death of King Aegon III, his 14 year old son Daeron inherited the Throne, Called The young Dragon, he proved an ambitious young man, convinced it was his destiny to unite the continent and complete the Targaryen conquest of Westeros. And so Daeron began the Second Dornish War, also known as the Conquest of Dorne, in which his forces were able to defeat the Noble Houses of the realm, placing the Lord of Highgarden to administer their new holding. Yet while the rulers of Dorne were defeated, the smallfolk who populated the territory rebelled, refused to submit to Targaryen authority. The occupation of Dorne became a disaster for Targaryen forces with many claiming Daeron lost 10 000 men taking Dorne, and up to 50 000 men trying to keep it. Eventually even the King lost his life in the fighting and the Targaryen’s were forced into retreat. Daeron was succeeded by his younger brother Baelor in 161AC. King Baelor I also called the Blessed made peace with Dorne, ending the war by recognizing their sovereignty and humbling himself before them. Baelor was a devout worshipper of the Faith of the 7, the most pious and humble King the realm ever knew. The Great Sept of Baelor was built in his honor and he was admired by many. During his reign he locked away his three beautiful sisters in order to lessen his temptation and avoid the Targaryen tradition of incest. In 170AC despite having been locked away in a tower, the King’s sister Daena the Defiant gave birth to Daemon Blackfyre, a bastard son fathered by her cousin Aegon Targaryen. After fasting forty days and nights, King Baelor died in 171AC. Though most believed he died of malnutrition, there are some who think he was poisoned by his uncle Viserys, who feared Baelor had grown to Zealous and was preparing to make war against the North and Iron Islands, in order to convert them to the faith of the 7. By all accounts King Viserys was wise and clever and might have been a great ruler, but unfortunately died of a sudden illness one year into his reign. Some however, suspect his son of poisoning him for the throne. In 172AC With Viserys II deceased, his eldest son Aegon was crowned king. Aegon IV was a drunken wretch of a ruler, largely considered the worst of the Targaryen Kings, his many selfish and careless actions earned him the name “Aegon the unworthy.” Perhaps most damaging of all his decrees, was heard as the King lay upon his deathbed in 184AC, where he legitimized all his acknowledged bastard children sowing the seeds that would one grow into the next great Civil War of Westeros. After the death of King Aegon IV, his eldest legitimate son Daeron II was crowned King. And while his reign would be fraught with difficulties, he accomplished much and was remembered fondly. Early in his reign, Daeron II was responsible for at last unifying the continent in 187AC, not through war, but with a marriage alliance to House Martell. Despite his accomplishments, the actions of his father still haunted him, and Daeron’s legitimacy was always in question. In 196AC, the bastard born Daemon Blackfyre, elder son of Aegon IV, declared himself King and once again the continent was split into factions. The Blackfyre rebellion ended at the Battle of the Redgrass Field, where Daemon was defeated and killed. * Some of Daemon’s children managed to escape with their uncle Aegor Rivers, who led them to Essos where they lived in exile, leaving Daeron as King of Westeros. In 209AC After Ser Duncan the Tall, a young Hedge Knight rescued a young woman from the abuse of Prince Aerion Targaryen, he was arrested and fought in a Trial of Seven. In this conflict, Prince Baelor Targaryen, heir to the Iron Throne, joined the side of the Hedge Knight and against his own nephew. And while Ser Duncan’s team was victorious, Baelor Breakspear died in the fighting and King Daeron was left without an heir. After the Great spring sickness of that same year, Daeron II died along with Baelor’s two sons, leaving Daeron’s second son, Aerys as King. Aerys I ruled a troubled kingdom and spent most of his reign putting down rebellions from both the Blackfyres in the East and the Ironborn in the West, who took advantage of the weakened realm and were raiding the western shores. In 211AC the Hand of the King Brynden Rivers, called Bloodraven, uncovered a plot to usurp the crown with a second Blackfyre Rebellion. But it was halted before any battles were fought, with Daemon Blackfyre II arrested at a tournament at Whitewall and taken as a hostage. In 219AC Aegor Rivers, called Bittersteel, led a third Blackfyre rebellion on behalf of Daemon II’s younger brother Haegon Blackfyre. But they too were defeated and Haegon killed. Bittersteel was arrested and sent to the Night’s Watch for his crimes, but his ship was intercepted by Blackfyre loyalists and once again he escaped to Essos. In 221AC King Aerys I died of natural causes and his brother Maekar inherited the throne. The reign of King Maekar I was largely considered a peaceful one, though rebellion was always an issue. In 226AC The Free Folk beyond the wall united under Raymun Redbeard, crowned their king. Under his leadership they successfully scaled the wall and invaded the North, but were eventually defeated by Lord Willam Stark and his Northern Army. In 233AC Maekar died fighting Outlaw Rebels, leaving his eldest surviving son Aemon Targaryen as heir. But Aemon refused the crown, and instead took his Maester’s vows, fleeing to the Wall. This left only Maekar’s youngest son Aegon “The Unlikely.” A fourth son of a fourth son and former squire to the Hedge Knight Ser Duncan the tall. The Reign of King Aegon V was largely prosperous proving a kind hearted and generous ruler. Brave on the battlefield and a man of the people, these characteristics which endeared him to the small folk, also made him an enemy of the Nobility, who felt he threatened their wealth and power. In 236AC Bittersteel and Daemon Blackfyre III Invaded Westeros with the Golden Company, in the Fourth Blackfyre Rebellion. However they were unable to rally many Lords to their cause, and were defeated at the battle of Wendwater Bridge where Ser Duncan the Tall slew Daemon Blackfyre, though Bittersteel again was able to escape. In 241 AC Aegor Rivers, died in the Disputed Lands of Essos, but the Blackfyre cause continued. In 259AC King Aegon V attempted to hatch the last of his dragon eggs at his home of Summerhall. But the plan went awry, and the palace was consumed by a great fire, killing the king, his son and the Kingsguard Ser Duncan the Tall. On this same day and in the same location, Rhaegar Targaryen was born. After the Death of Aegon V, his eldest surviving son, Jaehaerys II inherited the Throne. Though his reign was short due to poor health. He proved a capable and wise ruler. In 260AC Maelys the monstrous, last of the male line of Daemon Blackfyre, invaded the Stepstones south east of Westeros, joined by the Band of Nine, a group of merchants, mercenaries and pirates eager to carve out kingdoms for themselves. King Jaeherys II knew that Maelys was using the islands as a staging ground for a Fifth Blackfyre Rebellion, and so gathered his armies and sent them to the Stepstones where they fought and won the War of the Nine Penny Kings. During the fighting, Ser Barristan Selmy killed Maelys Blackfyre in single combat. After only 3 years as King, Jaeherys died of illness and his son Aerys II inherited the Throne. Early in his reign King Aerys appointed his friend Tywin Lannister as Hand of the king. And under his management the Seven kingdoms prospered for many years.* However their relationship grew strained over time largely due to King’s growing jealousy and paranoia. In 277AC House Darklyn of Duskendale rebelled in the Defiance of Duskendale. King Aerys, eager to prove himself a hero, went personally to settle the dispute but was taken captive and held as a hostage. The town was besieged for six months, until Ser Barristan Selmy of the Kingsguard single handily rescued the king.* In 280AC Rhaegar Targaryen, eldest son of King Aerys II married Elia Martell of Dorne. In 281 AC a Tournament was held at Harrenhall where Prince Rhaegar was named Champion earning the right to crown a woman Queen of Love and Beauty. However he passed over his own wife, to give the crown of blue roses to lady Lyanna Stark. This was later described as the moment when all the smiles died. For Lyanna was betrothed to Lord Robert Baratheon and Rhaegar had in one action insulted Houses Martell, Stark and Baratheon. Also in this year after the defeat of the rebel Kingswood Brotherhood, Ser Jaime Lannister was named to the Kingsguard, thereby robbing Tywin of his heir. Having had enough of the King’s disrespect, Tywin quit his position as Hand. Only one year after the departure of Tywin Lannister, King Aerys had alienated half the kingdom. Now called the Mad King, he and his son Rhaegar became responsible for the fall of their House. In 282AC, Prince Rhaegar, ignoring his wife, seemingly abducted Lyanna Stark and brought her South. When her family learned of this outrage, Brandon Stark, heir to Winterfell marched with 200 men to Kings Landing in order to confront the Prince. But Rhaegar was not present when they arrived, and so King Aerys had Brandon and his men arrested. When his father Lord Rickard Stark then travelled to the capital to negotiate his sons release, he too was arrested and both were tortured and executed. After this act of barbarism, House Stark, Arryn and Baratheon declared war against the crown. Later House Tully of the Riverlands joined them, while House Martell and Tyrell remained loyal to the King, and House Greyjoy and Lannister remained neutral. The war culminated in the Battle of the Trident in 283AC, when Robert Baratheon led his forces to Victory against Rhaegar, smashing his Warhammer into the prince’s chest, and destroying the bulk of the Targaryen army. After this action The Greyjoys and Lannisters both joined the Baratheon cause, with the Ironborn fleet attacking the Reach and Lord Tywin Lannister Sacking King’s Landing in Robert’s name. During the fall of capital, Ser Jaime Lannister betrayed his oath as a Kingsguard by slitting the throat of the Mad King, who in his rage and insanity was preparing to set fire to the city. Lyanna was found dead in Dorne later that year by her brother Eddard Stark, whom she entrusted with a secret, Lord Stark never revealed. After the War Ned returned home to Winterfell with a child named Jon Snow, claiming it was his bastard born son by unknown woman in the south. In 283 AC Robert Baratheon was crowned king of Westeros, marrying the daughter of Tywin Lannister, Lady Cersei and naming Lord Jon Arryn hand of the King. He claimed his legitimacy by citing his grandmother Rhaelle Targaryen, daughter of King Aegon V. And while many named him Usurper, his skills as a warrior and general were unmatched, and this deterrent made rebellion rare, allowing for a long and largely peaceful reign. Though nearly all of the Targaryen family was killed in the war, the mad king’s youngest children Viserys and Daenerys Targaryen were smuggled off dragonstone by the elderly Ser Willem Darry, taking them to Braavos where they lived in exile. King Robert Baratheon I ruled for many years, and while he was merciful and amiable, he proved an unfaithful husband and poor administrator. Recognizing this, he made no pretense about his behavior and chose to spend his years in blissful debauchery, while his trusted friend and mentor Jon Arryn oversaw the kingdom. In 289AC Balon Greyjoy declared himself King of the Iron Islands in the Greyjoy rebellion. But their ships were destroyed by Stannis Baratheon and the Islands were taken by King Robert and Lord Eddard Stark. Balon bent the knee and his life was spared, but two of his sons were killed in the fighting. His youngest and sole surviving son Theon was taken as ward and hostage by Eddard Stark and was raised in Winterfell alongside the stark children. In 297 AC, after years spent wandering the Free Cities struggling to survive, in a fruitless attempt to gather support for an invasion of westeros, the last known Targaryen children Viserys and Daenerys were taken in by Illyrio Mopatis, a wealthy merchant of Pentos. In the North Beyond the Wall, Men of the Night’s Watch encounter White Walkers for the first time in thousands of years. In Pentos, Illyrio Mopatis having offered to aid young Viserys Targaryen reclaim the Iron throne, arranged a marriage between 13 year old Daenerys and Khal Drogo, a Dothraki Horselord leading a Khalasar of 40 000. In desperate need of allies to retake Westeros for House Targaryen, Viserys agreed to the match, and so Daenerys married the Horselord, receiving 3 Petrified Dragon Eggs as a gift from Illyrio during the celebration. In 298 AC, Jon Arryn, hand of the King died. Some believing he was poisoned. In the North, House Stark adopted 6 Direwolf pups, with Lord Eddard Stark granting one to each of his children, including his bastard son, 14 year old Jon Snow. In Essos, Daenerys Targaryen became pregnant. Following the death of the Hand of the King, Robert Baratheon arrived in Winterfell and named Lord Eddard Stark, his new Hand. The 12 year old Prince Joffrey Baratheon, heir to the Seven Kingdoms was then betrothed to 11 year old Sansa Stark, eldest daughter of the Lord of Winterfell. Despite only being a child of 7, Bran Stark was pushed from a tower window by Jaime Lannister, after the boy caught him laying with his twin sister Queen Cersei. Bran survived the fall but was left in a coma. Ned Stark along with his daughters Sansa and 9 year old Arya left for King’s Landing with Robert’s party, while Jon Snow went to the Wall with his uncle Benjen to join the Night’s Watch. Before parting, Jon gifted his younger half sister Arya a thin lightweight sword named needle. After their departure, An assassin was sent to kill Bran Stark as he slept but was stopped by Bran’s mother Lady Catelyn Stark and his Direwolf Summer. Arriving at Castle Black, Jon worked to earn his place as a Black Brother, while Benjen Stark went on a ranging mission beyond the wall, from which he did not return. During their journey south, Arya’s direwolf Nymeria attacked Prince Joffrey Baratheon. In order to avoid punishment, Arya released her companion into the wild. However because Nymeria was no longer present, Sansa’s direwolf Lady was killed in retribution. Bran awoke, remembering the visions he saw while sleeping, many revolving around a mysterious 3 eyed crow. However in the waking world he was now paralyzed from the waist down, and had to be carried by a loyal family servant of simple mind but kind heart named Walder, who many called Hodor, as it was the only word he could say. In King’s Landing Arya Stark began her lessons under Syrio Forel, a master fighter and former First Sword of Braavos. Suspecting that the Lannisters were responsible for the near death of Bran, Lady Catelyn Stark encountered the queen’s younger brother Tyrion Lannister at the Crossroads Inn of the Riverlands. Ordering his arrest.. In the capital, after a disagreement with the King, Lord Eddard Stark resigned as Hand. Later that day, Jaime Lannister and his soldiers ambushed Ned Stark, confronting him about Tyrion’s arrest and leaving the Lord of Winterfell with a wounded leg. In Essos, after the successful completion of a Dothraki ritual in their capital of Vaes Dothraki, the unborn child of Daenerys Targaryen was proclaimed the Stallion who Mounts the world, a long awaited hero of prophecy that would unite the Khalasars. After the ceremony however, the increasingly unstable Viserys Targaryen was killed by Khal Drogo for threatening his pregnant sister with a sword. Back in Westeros, Tyrion Lannister’s Champion Bronn won the Trial by Combat, and was set free from his prison at the Eerie in the Vale of Arryn. With Jaimie having fled the city, Lord Stark resumed his role as Hand of the King only to learn that the Lannister Bannerman Ser Gregor Clegane was burning villages in the Riverlands. Lord Beric Dondarrion was then sent with a small army to stop them with Tywin Lannister summoned to court so he might explain the actions of his men. After an investigation into the murder of Jon Arryn, Eddar Stark discovered a terrible truth, and so warned Queen Cersei that he knew her children were born of incest. Lord Stark then told her he would inform the king upon returning from a hunt and instructed her to leave the city lest Robert kill the children in his rage. But Robert Returned gravely injured and Ned was unable to hurt his friend in his final hours. Sansa Stark, horrified by the notion of returning to the North, ran to Cersei Lannister in an attempt to stay. But in doing so, she further informed the Queen of Ned Stark’s plans, and she prepared to counter. After Robert’s death, the Hand of the King attempted to seize power in the name of Stannis Baratheon, Robert’s younger brother, and true heir to the Iron Throne. But he was betrayed by Petyr Baelish, called Littlefinger, and Lord Stark was arrested. During the upheaval, Lannister guards came for Arya, but Syrio Forel kept them occupied giving Arya time to escape. At the Wall, Jon Snow and his friend Samwell Tarly took the oath of the Night’s Watch Learning of his father’s arrest, 15 year old Robb Stark, heir to Winterfell, raised the bannermen of the North and Marched his army South. After tensions arose between the Westerlands and Riverlands, Riverland forces crossed the border to block the Golden Tooth and prevent an invasion. But Ser Jaime Lannister led a Westerland army against them in the Battle of the Golden Tooth, forcing their retreat to Riverrun. Later, this would be considered the first battle of the War of the Five Kings. In Essos, a man attempted to poison Daenerys Targaryen, but was stopped by Ser Jorah Mormont, who had been spying on the girl for Varys the Spider, Spymaster to King Robert Baratheon. But with this action he switched allegiances and devoted himself entirely to her cause. The attempt on her life also served to convince Khal Drogo that his wife’s enemies in westeros must be destroyed. In the First Battle of Riverrun, Edmure Tully fought Jaime Lannister with the Lannister forces emerging victorious. Ser Edmure was then captured and so it fell to Lord Tytos Blackwood to lead survivors to Riverrun. Ser Jaime followed them and laid siege to the castle. Meanwhile Jaime’s father Tywin Lannister led an army to take Harrenhall and other Riverland territories. In King’s Landing, Ser Barristan Selmy was dismissed from the Kingsguard. In 299 AC, Jon Snow was given the Valyrian steel sword Longclaw, after saving the life of Lord Commander Mormont. Robb’s army, marching south, reached the Twins of House Frey, where he pledged to marry a Frey Daughter in return for their support in the war. With news having spread about the illegitimacy of Robert’s supposed first born child Joffrey Baratheon, the Kingdom fractured, as many felt the Lannisters had usurped the crown. Renly Baratheon, youngest brother of Robert Baratheon declared himself King of Westeros at Highgarden with the support of House Tyrell of the Reach. At the Battle of the Green Fork Lord Roose Bolton battled Lord Tywin Lannister, and although Lord Twyin was victorious, the battle was only a distraction by the Northmen, so that Robb Stark could lead the rest of their forces to attack Jaime Lannister a few days later. At the Battle of the Whispering Wood. Robb Stark battled Jaime Lannister. The North was victorious and Ser Jaime was taken captive. Robb’s forces then broke the siege of Riverrun and restored their allies in House Tully to power. After the arrest of Lord Stark, it was decided he would be allowed to join the Night’s Watch rather than face execution for his treason, if only he would confess to the crime and pledge himself to King Joffrey. Lord Stark agreed, in order to ensure the safety of his daughter Sansa who was in Lannister custody. But they were all betrayed by young King Joffrey Baratheon, who ignored the deal made and asked the executioner Ilyn Payne to behead Ned Stark after his confession. Both his daughter’s Sansa and Arya were present for his death. But Sansa remained a captive of the Lannisters, still betrothed to King Joffrey Baratheon, while Arya escaped the city with Yoren of the Night’s Watch. In Old Town, a young man by the name of Alleras began his Maester studies at the Citadel.* Learning of the death of his father, and with the support of the North and Riverlands, Robb Stark was Declared King in the North and the Trident. In Essos, Khal Drogo died as did the child Rhaego, after a blood magic ritual to save the Khal’s life went awry. Nearly all of the Khalasar had left with only a few slaves and sworn soldiers remaining. The three dragon eggs were placed into Drogo’s funeral pyre along with the witch Mirri Maz Duur, who’d performed the ritual. As the fires burned the witch sang though her song eventually turned to screams. As a red comet appeared in the sky the pyre was lit, and so Daenerys fearlessly walked into the inferno. In the morning when the fire burned out the servants searched among the ashes and found Daenerys unharmed alongside three freshly hatched dragons, naming them Drogon, Rhaegal and Viserion. Back in Westeros, Tyrion Lannister was named acting Hand of the King on behalf of Tywin Lannister. On Dragonstone, Stannis Baratheon, the eldest surviving brother of King Robert, sent letters to all the major lords of Westeros, proclaiming Joffrey a bastard born son of incest and declaring himself as the One True King of Westeros. He was supported by a portion of the Stormlands, and was advised by a Red Priestess of R’hllor named Melisandre who believed him to be Azor Ahai reborn, a legendary hero of prophecy. King Stannis then went on to besiege Storm’s End, the seat of his younger brother and rival Renly Baratheon. Arya Stark arrived as a captive to Harrenhall and was put to work as a servant. Lord Jeor Mormont led a large host of Night’s Watch Rangers beyond the Wall to investigate the rumors of White Walkers, and a Wildling Army led by a King named Mance Rayder, a former Black Brother and Wildling of the far North. Theon Greyjoy arrived on the Iron Islands with a proposal of alliance from Robb Stark. But Theon’s father told him they would instead invade the North while Robb’s army was occupied in the south. Theon, though hesitant, chose to betray Robb and help his father. At the Battle of Ox Cross, King Robb Stark battled Ser Stafford Lannister with House Stark and their Tully allies victorious. Arya befriended Jaqen Hgar and ordered the deaths of Chiswyck and Weese Melisendre used her Red Magic to assassinate King Renly Baratheon on behalf of King Stannis Baratheon. Most of the Stormland forces switched sides to Stannis, while Soldiers of the Reach followed Ser Loras Tyrell back to High Garden. Jon Snow joined Qhorin Halfhands party beyond the wall and went scouting at the fist of the First Men With the Ironborn invasion of the North underway, Theon Greyjoy disobeyed orders, moving in land to instead take Winterfell. Melisendre used her Red Magic to assassinate Ser Cortnay Penrose on behalf of King Stannis Baratheon to aid in capturing Storm’s End. Theon faked the death of Bran and Rickon Stark, who were hiding in the crypts of Winterfell. Ser Edmure Tully disobeyed the orders of King Robb Stark and attacked Lord Tywin Lannister in the Battle of the Fords. Edmure was victorious, forcing Tywin’s retreat, but his actions disrupted Robb’s longterm plans for the war. Barristan Selmy became advisor to Daenerys Targaryen, posing as Arstan Whitebeard. At the Battle of the Blackwater, King Stannis Baratheon led his armies against Lord Tyrion Lannister, commanding on behalf of King Joffrey Baratheon in the Battle of the Blackwater. Though Stannis came close to victory, Lord Tywin arrived with a Lannister-Tyrell army just in time to push the Baratheon forces into retreat. As a result the Kingdom learned that House Tyrell had pledged to King Joffrey Baratheon. Tyrion Lannister suffers a great injury in the battle, losing most of his nose. Jon Snow met Ygritte, a Wildling woman he came to love. King Robb Stark captured the Crag in the Westerlands. Robb’s mother Catelyn Stark freed Jaime Lannister, in the hopes the Lannisters would return Sansa and Arya, sending Brienne of Tarth to accompany him to King’s Landing. With Tywin’s returned to the capital, he took up his position as Hand of the King while Tyrion became Master of Coin After being captured and on the orders of Qhorin himself. Jon Snow feigned betrayal and killed Qhorin Halfhand, in order to win the trust of the wildling and act as a spy. Robb betrayed his word to Lord Frey of the Twins, by Marrying a minor noble woman Jeyne Westerling. Theon lost Winterfell, and was taken captive by Ramsay Snow, on behalf of Roose Bolton. Winterfell was burned. Arya Stark used Jaqen Hgar to help her escape Harrenhall and was given a coin along with the phrase Valar Morgulus, before Jaqen changed his face and went his own way. The gift, he said would grant her passage to Braavos. Daenerys obtained an army of Unsullied Warriors and conquered the city of Astapor, leaving a Ruling Council before departing. Bran and Rickon Stark separated and fled north, with Osha leading Rickon and Shaggydog to Skagos while Bran, Meera, Jojen, Hodor and Summer went in search of the 3 eyed crow which continued to haunt Bran’s dreams. Lady Margaery Tyrell came to King’s Landing and was betrothed to King Joffrey Baratheon. Freeing Sansa from King Joffrey’s constant abuse. Daenerys Conquered Yunkai. White Walkers attacked the Great Ranging beyond the Wall, forcing their retreat to Craster’s Keep At the Battle of Duskendale, Lord Robett Glover battled Lord Randyl Tarley and Ser Gregor Clegane. The Glover forces were defeated Robett was taken captive. Jaime and Brienne were captured by the Mercenary Company the Brave Companions. Jaime’s sword hand was removed by Zollo the fat, a merciless Dothraki fighting for the companions. Lord Rickard Karstark disobeyed his King and murdered Lannister prisoners. Robb beheaded the Lord as punishment, and so the Karstark forces abandoned his campaign. Sansa Stark married Tyrion Lannister. Stannis and Melisandre threw 3 leeches into a fire and performed a magical enchant calling on the deaths of Joffrey Baratheon, Robb Stark and Balon Greyjoy. Lord Balon died soon after under mysterious circumstances. Having fallen off a bridge during a storm, though many suspect assassination. After sometime with the Brotherhood without Banners, Arya was captured by the Hound Sandor Clegane. Daenerys Targaryen besieged the city of Meereen. After learning that Arstan was Barristan Selmy and Jorah Mormont was once a spy for King Robert, she sent them on a suicide mission to help capture the city. But they both survived and succeed in their objective. Ser Barristan was forgiven but Jorah was dismissed after he demanded an apology. Meereen was Captured Jon Snow scaled the Wall with some Wildling scouts, on behalf of Mance Rayder. At Kraster’s keep, Lord Commander Jeor Mormont and the Night’s watch suffer mutiny, and many are killed including the Lord Commander and Kraster. Samwell Tarley fled the fighting with Gilly, a daughter of kraster, and her baby. Jon, now south of the wall, managed to escape from the wildlings and returned to Castle Black. Bran enlisted Sam and Gilly to help them pass the wall. There they encountered Coldhands, a mysterious creature, appearing to be an undead Wight, but without hostility and clear intelligence. At the Twins, Robb Stark was betrayed by Lord Frey and Roose Bolton at the wedding of Edmure and Roslin Frey. The event became known as the Red Wedding, and saw the death of Robb Stark, Catelyn Stark, Smalljon Umber, the Direwolf Grey Wind, the destruction of the Stark army, the capture of Edmure Tully and Greatjon Umber. Robb’s wife Jeyne Westerling was safe in Riverrun at the time and her family connections ensured her safety from the Lnnisters.. 3 days later Catelyn Stark was resurrected by a magical ritual where Beric Dondarrion sacrificed his life so she could live. She took the name Lady Stoneheart and assumed control of the Brotherhood without Banner. Above all else she desires vengeance against the Lannisters. King Joffrey Baratheon married Lady Margaery Tyrell, but during the wedding feast, the king is poisoned and died, in an event that came to be known as the Purple Wedding. In her rage Queen Cersei ordered her hated brother Tyrion Lannister arrested for Regicide, though he appeared to be innocent. With King Joffrey dead, his younger brother Tommen inherited the Throne. Oberyn Martell offered to represent Tyrion in a trial by combat while Queen Cersei named Gregor Clegane as her champion. Oberyn was killed in the fighting and Tyrion was sentenced to death, but Oberyn was able to wound The Mountain with a poisoned blade, leaving him severely injured. Petyr Baelish went to the Vale of Arryn with Sansa Stark. There, he married Lysa Tully and became Lord Protector of the Vale. He then killed Lysa, and it was revealed that Littlefinger arranged the death of Jon Arryn, and set the Starks against the Lannisters, igniting the civil war. Marillion the singer was blamed for Lysa’s death and lost his eyes and some fingers. Lord Baelish set to consolidating his power with Sansa Stark acting as his ally. Arya left the Hound Sandor Clegane to die of his injuries, and boarded a ship to Braavos. At the Wall Mance Rayder and his Wildling Army attack the Night’s Watch. With Jaime back in King’s Landing, Brienne of Tarth went off in search of Sansa Stark in honor of the deceased Lady Catelyn. In Dorne, the Sand snakes, the eldest daughters of Oberyn Martell, were imprisoned. A Kingsmoot was held on the Iron Islands, where Euron Greyjoy, Balon’s younger brother was elected King. He promised the Ironborn a full scale invasion of Westeros and that he would bring Dragons to aid their cause. He presented the Dragonhorn, a relic from ancient Valyria he claimed could control the creatures. Jaime Lannister and Varys the Spider arranged for Tyrion to escape the city, but before leaving he used the secret tunnels of Maegor’s Holdfast to reach his father’s room. There he found his former lover, the prostitute Shae and killed her, then moving on to find his father in the privy. Tyrion shot his father with a crossbow, killing Lord Tywin, Hand of the King. Tyrion then set sail for Pentos, while Varys the Spider went into hiding, fearing he’d be suspected. After the victory of the Night’s watch in holding back the Wildlings. Jon Snow was arrested by Janos Slynt and Alliser Thorn. After several days in an ice prison, he was sent on a suicide mission to kill Mance Rayder under the guise of a negotiation. But while Jon was with the Wildlings, King Stannis Baratheon arrived North of the wall and scattered Mance Rayder’s Army. Mance was forced to surrender but did not bend the knee. King Tommen Baratheon I married Lady Margaery Tyrell. In Dorne, Myrcella Baratheon was wounded, losing her ear to Ser Gerold Dayne during a foiled plot by Arianne Martell to star a war between Dorne and the Lannisters. Jon Snow was elected Lord Commander of the Night’s Watch Theon Greyjoy, having been captured by the Bastard of Bolton, Ramsay Snow, was tortured to the point where he only responded to the name Reek. Qarth Declared war against Daenerys Targaryen and Meereen. Melisendre feigned the death of Mance Rayder by burning Rattleshirt while glamoured to look like the king beyond the wall. Arya arrived in Braavos and began her training as a faceless assassin Tyrion encountered Jon Connington and the Golden Company, who were marching with young Aegon Targaryen, the alleged son of Rhaegar Targaryen, said to have survived the Sack of King’s Landing with the aid of Varys the Spider. Davos Seaworth went to White harbor on behalf of King Stannis Baratheon Bran reached the cave of the 3 eyed crow, where he found dozens of children of the forest who have lived there for thousands of years. From the 3 eyed crow, once called Brynden Rivers or Bloodraven, Bran trained as a Greenseer. Suffering Financial hardships, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister, refused to honor the Kingdoms debt with the Iron bank of Braavos until the Rebellions were defeated. In response the Iron Bank stopped giving out loans to the noble Houses of Westeros and started calling in their debts, creating economic chaos throughout the realm. After the election of a new high Septon known as the High Sparrow, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister allowed for the rearming of religious militias, reviving the Faith Militants and the Order of the Warrior’s Sons. On the advice of Jon Snow, King Stannis conquered Deepwood Motte Melisendre convinced Jon Snow to send Mance Rayder on a secret mission to Winterfell, where Arya Stark was supposedly marrying Ramsay Snow, now Ramsay Bolton. In truth it is Sansa’s old friend Jeyne Pool posed as Arya Stark, though Jon was unaware. Tyrion was kidnapped by Ser Jorah Mormont, who planned to give him to Daenerys Targaryen in order to regain her favor. Davos was sent on a mission by Lord Manderly to retrieve Rickon Stark from Skagos. In exchange House Manderly sould pledge support for Stannis Baratheon. With the Yunkai nobility having risen up against Daeanery Targaryen, they attacked the City of Astapor which fell to their forces. Yet because of a disease outbreak, the city was sealed to prevent the Bloody Flux from spreading. Arianne Martell and the Sand Snakes rejoined the efforts of Prince Doran Martell Maester Aemon Targaryen died of natural causes. Sam began his training as Maester in oldtown and met Alleras. Brienne was reunited with Jaime Lannister at the siege of Raven tree, and convinced him to follow her alone. Though Jaime believed he was going to help save Sansa Stark, Brienne appeared to actually be luring him to Lady Stone Heart. Ramsay Bolton Married Jeyne Poole, posing as Arya Stark. Tyrion, Jorah and a dwarf performer named Penny were captured by slavers. Jon Connington and his men began their invasion of Westeros by taking Griffin’s Roost on behalf of Young Aegon Targaryen. Arianne Martell was sent to the Stormlands, to learn of Aegon Targaryen, on behalf of her father Lord Doran Martell The Iron Bank made a deal to support King Stannis in his bid for the Throne and Jon Snow in his command of the Night’s Watch. After a plan to frame Margaery of adultery went awry, Queen Cersei Lannister was arrested by the ever more powerful Faith Militants and was forced to walk naked through the streets of King’s Landing, before being tried for various crimes, including fornication, treason, and murder. With Caersei incarcerated, Ser Kevan Lannister, Tywin’s younger brother took over the position of Regant. While Mace Tyrell was made Hand of the King, Ser Paxton Redwyne was made Master of Ships and Randell Tarley was named Master of Laws. Yet just as the new government began to set the city and realm in order, Kevan Lannister and Grand Maester Pycelle were assassinated by Varys the Spider, who re-emerged after having hidden in the tunnels of Maegor’s Holdfast since Tyrion’s escape. Jon Connington and young Aegon conquered Storm’s End Quentyn Martell reached Meereen and proposed a marriage alliance between Dorne and Daenerys. But she refused. Daenerys Targaryen instead married Hizdahr zo Loraq to secure her rule in Meereen. On a mission to find Daenerys Targaryen, Victarion Greyjoy rescued the red priest Moqorro from the sea. Daenerys made peace with Yunkai Arya completed her First Kill as a faceless Assassin Daenerys flew away from a celebration on the back of her dragon Drogon, who left her far away in the Dothraki Sea Tyrion, Jorah and Penny joined the Second Sons under the command of Brown Benn Plumm Ser Barristan Selmy led a coup against Hizdar Zo loraq in the name of the absent Daenerys Targaryen and prepared the city for war against Yunkai. Quentyn refused to go home empty handed and attempted to tame one of Daenerys Dragons, but he was roasted alive and died a few days later. Theon Greyjoy and Jeyne Poole escaped from Ramsay snow by jumping off the walls of winterfell Victarion arrived with the Iron Fleet in Meereen. Thanks to Tyrion convincing Brown Ben Plumm, the Second Sons turned their cloaks to Yunkai and rejoined the forces of Daenerys Targaryen. Jon struck a deal with Tormund Giantsbane to allow the wildlings to cross peacefully into the Seven Kingdoms. Daenerys became grievously ill while walking through the grasslands, but when she recovered mounted Drogon and together hunted down a horse, eating its charred remains. Daenerys Targaryen, was then found by the Dothraki Khalasar of Khal Jhaqo. At the wall Jon snow received a pink letter, supposedly from Ramsay Bolton, full of insults, claiming to have defeated Stannis in battle and captured Mance Rayder. Jon snow then decided to break his oath and lead a volunteer army south to destroy the Bolton forces and rescue his sister. But this action could not be tolerated by some of his fellow black brothers, who mutinied, stabbing Jon several times and leaving him to die.